from https://twitter.com/stacysgrs
Except the ice one! That was reversed based on the opinion of Dr. Jess Ting

1. Don't skimp on your pain meds. They take a little bit to kick in anyways, so if you might be in pain in half an hour, take something.

2. Re: getting out of bed, you may have to engage a lot of muscle groups you're not used to. Relaxing the legs/buttocks is crucial.
2. (cont.) Headboards are immensely useful for this. Imagine you're pulling on the world's heaviest door. Arms only. No legs.
2. (cont.) This also may be difficult if you're shivering. When you're shivering, a good majority of your muscles are moving. Stop, warm up.

3. If you have any reservations about privacy and your body, it's best to drop them as soon as possible. A lot of folks will need to help.
3. (cont.) I know this can be very difficult for some people. Just remember that these people are only here to aid your recovery.

4. Sleep is vital to your recovery. Go easy on the chocolate, tea, soda, and coffee. Drink/eat less of it in the weeks leading up to V-Day.

5. Percocet gives you crazy dreams. Keep a log of them to keep yourself entertained.

6. Hydration is key. You're losing blood, and water is a big constituent of blood. You also may be crying from the pain. Drink water.

7. When you're having a hard day, remember each day is better than the previous, because each day you're closer to being fully healed.
7. (cont.) This is a very optimistic approach and doesn't account for complications or setbacks of any kind. Take it on anyways.

8. Self-care is very important, especially in the first week. Doing up your eyebrows, shaving your face, trimming your nails, all important.
8. (cont.) This is especially true because it helps regain a sense of autonomy. It's easy to lose that in your first week.

9. Your surgeon may not let you shower for a while. This means you will be very, very, very, very, very smelly. And that's okay.

10. Lean on your friends. I can't say this enough: I have no idea where I'd be without my friends who have helped me get this far.

11. As soon as you can stand up for more than a couple minutes at a time, brush your teeth. You'll thank yourself for it.

12. NO ICE! You vagina is a skin graft and is growing new blood vessels, ice reduces circulation. Don't do it.

13. If you've got 1-2 years before your surgery, get those piercing(s) + tattoo(s) you've always wanted. It'll teach you to deal with pain.
13. (cont.) Getting sewn up without anesthesia is like a bad body piercing. Post-op pain is like a really long tattoo.

14. Don't underestimate the power of distraction. Sometimes, your favorite TV show, video game, or group of friends can be a painkiller.

15. Remember to have Benadryl near you at all times otherwise you're gonna be in for some rough nights with those painkillers.

16. Menopause. Unless you get back on estrogen an hour after you wake up from surgery, this is gonna happen to you. Prepare for hot flashes.
16. (cont.) One of the most useful things is to have a fan near you at all times, whether it be electric or handheld.

17. Have a go-to meal to settle your stomach when you feel nauseous.

18. If you have someone taking care of you outside the hospital, thank them daily. If you don't have someone, you may die. Have someone.
18. (cont.) It is absolutely crucial that you work reliable others into your surgical plan and knowing this WELL before your surgery date.
18. (cont.) Some surgery centers actually require that you give them this person's information to make sure that you're safe.

19. If you're lactose intolerant, don't drink milk dude wtf

20. Stay home on the day of your bowel prep. Nothing worse than getting stuck without comfortable bathroom options.

21. You'll be in bed a lot. You'll be expending less energy, and therefore you don't need to eat as much. Get smaller portions.

21. (cont.) This one took me about a week to figure out and I wasted a lot of food.

22. As a corollary: make sure you don't stop eating altogether. At least three meals a day, and protein bars + meal replacements help.

23. Patience. Patience. Patience. Patience. Patience. Patience. Patience. Patience. Patience. Patience. Patience. Patience. Patience. Patien

24. You won't be allowed to shower for a bit. Instead, substitute PTA showers (pits, tits, ass), wash your hair in the sink, etc.

24. (cont.) Feeling clean is extremely important, just take special care not to get the surgical site wet AT ALL. Friends help.

25. You're not going to be able to bend down to pick stuff up for a while. Rely on your friends.

26. Change your pad daily.

27. Your packing is going to be the worst-smelling thing in the universe. There's not a lot you can do to prevent it.

28. Always lay down a towel on your bed, centered around your butt/crotch area.

29. For at least a week, you're only going to be able to sleep on your back. Try getting into the habit beforehand.

30. Put on deodorant daily, even if you don't smell. It'll help you feel more normal.

31. Learn what your headaches mean. For me, it's that I need to drink more water.

32. Muscle atrophy is a very real thing. You'll think it won't happen to you. It will. Know your limits.

33. If you can sit on the toilet with the lid AND the seat up, do it. It'll hurt way less than sitting on the seat.

33. (cont.) This will transfer the weight/pressure away from the surgical site and towards the hip bones.

34. You'll be doing a lot of eating in bed, and sitting up won't be feasible for a while. That's messy. Make yourself a napkin bib.

35. If you get a cold during your first two weeks, prepare to die. Coughing while having a massive crotch wound is the worst thing ever.

35. (cont.) Obviously, it's not the end of the world, but you're going to be very uncomfortable and in pain.

36. For dilating: 1. It's the lowest hole. For the love of god, do not stick it in your urethra. 2. Go UNDER the pubic bone.

37. Watching YouTube videos is a good way to keep distracted while dilating. It's uncomfortable at worst and boring at best, so.

38. When your dilator comes out, it will be VERY warm. I just think that's kinda cool.

39. Lube.

40. I hope you're not attached to this pair of underwear. Or this one. Or that one. Or that other one.

41. Your vulva'll come out looking like an over-inflated strawberry birthday cake that a possum viciously dug through before getting bored.

42. Your vulva will look fine in a couple weeks.

43. Recognize that your pain is a healing pain.

44. Your packing is a super ultra tampon. When they take it out, you're gonna be bleeding for a while. This is your first and only period.

45. Make sure you have some designated ugly period panties on hand for this part. Messes are bound to be made.

46. When dilating, you might start feeling resistance or pain as it goes in. This can be due to a bad angle. Let go, see if it moves.
46. (cont.) The dilator will move back to center if you've been pushing it too far in one direction. Then, you can continue pushing.
New conversation

47. The brownish yellow discharge that occurs from the time that the packing comes out to about Week 6 is arguably grosser than the blood.
47. (cont.) It's also what makes the packing smell so bad. Do you want your panties to smell & look like that? No? Then keep wearing pads.

48. The road back from muscle atrophy is long and frustrating. Know your limits but don't skimp on taking walks and improving yourself.
48. (cont.) The more effort you put in now, the quicker you'll get all your strength back.

49. Learn to fake-out your sneezes. A normal sneeze will engage you groin muscles and be a whole world of hurt.
49. (cont.) The exact second the sneeze begins, put all of your energy into stopping it. You know you've got it if it sounds like a cough.
49. (cont.) You can also think of it as not giving the sneeze the fuel it needs to succeed. Don't give that sneeze all your breath.

50. There is nothing better than recovering in your own bed.

51. If you quit narcotics cold turkey (don't), quit any and all caffeine immediately. Your body has depended on narcotics to fall asleep.
51. (cont.) It'll take a while to start producing sleepy chemicals again, and you'll be disproportionately affected by caffeine.

52. If your dilator stutters instead of going in with one smooth motion, you need to relax and spread out your legs more.

53. Make sure to clean the space between your labia and your legs with a 50-50 mixture of hydrogen peroxide and water after dilation.
53. (cont.) This is super gross, but the little sizzling/foaming sound it makes afterwards is strangely satisfying.

54. Expect your pants to fit better. Expect your fashion options to increase without limit.

55. You know the feeling of your scrotum getting stuck to your thigh? That'll keep happening, except your scrotum is now your swollen labia.

56. Peeing will be messy and annoying. Stay hydrated anyways. You'll have plenty of time to develop more muscle and control later on.

57. Front to back.

58. If you see something funny and laugh really hard when you're dilating, your dilator WILL shoot out of your body at 90mph
58. (cont.) The moral of the story is keep a good grip on your dilator
58. (cont.) APPARENTLY this also applies to sneezing

59. Holding your dilator in with your calf so you can use both hands for whatever else is Laziness Level 9000 but also Efficiency Level 9000

60. For at least the first two months, use a mirror when dilating. It may help you catch something important, like a blown stitch.

61. Make sure you dilate to the same depth every time, otherwise you'll have one heck of an uncomforable time making up the lost diameter.

62. Boppy pillows work WAY better than inflatable or foam cushions. Remember to bring it with you to the surgery.
62. (cont.) There's a good chance you'll have to sit in a wheelchair for some part afterwards and you'll wanna be comfy.
62. (cont.) Also, they're polyester, so they're super duper easy to get blood out of.

63. Pee before you dilate if you don't want to feel extremely uncomfortable the whole time.

64. Folks have been coming up with euphemisms for "vagina" for centuries, but you get one that cis women don't: "the surgical site"

65. For the love of god, don't get a sponge or loofah anywhere near your vag for at least the first month. Use soapy hands instead.
65. (cont.) Getting your sponge caught on one of your staples = your soul gets sucked out of your body through your vagina.
New conversation

66. Sitting on hard surfaces may be easier than soft surfaces at first. Soft surfaces may deform into your vag when you sit.

67. Getting turned on and not immediately having a swelling feeling in your nethers is the best feeling in the observable universe.

68. Your vagina is new. A masterful artist just carved this work out of nothing. Let the paint dry. Don't interfere with their work.

69. Your clit is just as new as your vagina, but will be about twice as pissy about it. Your clit is an angsty teenager.

70. Being able to sit down anywhere you please is probably the last major hurdle you'll have to overcome. You'll feel VERY normal afterward.

71. Infections of the yeast and urinary tract varieties are especially common at first. Think of it as initiation. Be excited, then in pain.

72. Peeing might hurt once they take your catheter out. That's okay. It'll go away.

73. Make sure you know EXACTLY how much peeing typically hurts, because if it hurts more than usual you may have a UTI.
73. (cont.) Also make note of your frequency. If you're constantly feeling like you have to pee, you may have a UTI.

74. There is a medication called phenazopyridine (Azo) available OTC that numbs your urethra and turns your pee orange. Neat!

75. Being put under feels like you stopped paying attention for a second, and then teleporting to a new location when you perk up.
75. (cont.) It's not scary! It's practically a non-event. You won't even remember counting back from 10.

76. Insurance companies are the devil. Never, ever, ever stop fighting. Take it as high up as you can.

77. Enjoy your newfound mobility and lack of pain once your packing comes out. It's like a breath of fresh air.

78. Oh yeah: in case you don't know, you'll need to get lasers fired into your crotch to clear a certain area of hair before surgery.
78. (cont.) START THIS PROCESS AS SOON AS POSSIBLE. It can take many months, even close to a year. Also, it'll give you a taste of the pain.
78. (cont.) Ofc, make sure your surgeon has a diagram to work off. You might not have to clear your bush at all, just the undercarriage.

79. I'll let you in on a little secret: the worst part of the surgery isn't the pain. It's not being able to masturbate for two months.

80. Crossing your legs is about to be 10 times more awesome. It's also the first sitting posture you should try without your cushion.
80. (cont.) It allows you to put all your weight on one thigh and allows you now to sit on your new and very swollen vagina.

81. To tie your shoes without sitting down, press your forehead or shoulder against the wall and raise up your foot.

82. Phantom pains and itches will happen. The easiest way to combat them is with a mirror and a touch. Your nerves are all still there.

82. (cont.) It's just a matter of figuring out where the nerves went. Phantom scrotum itch? Scratch your labia. That's what it turned into.

83. You are a badass. This pain ain't got nothing on you. Show it who's boss.

84. The second month is gonna feel way longer than the first because there's gonna be a lot less stuff happening. Patience.

85. Chances of you saying "I just wanna shit my brains out" on bowel prep day: 0%
Chances after 6-7 days post-op: 90%

86. Tired of dropping things and needing someone else to come pick it up for you because your butt is pretty much sewn together? Boom. (a pickup stick, a grabber on a handle)

87. In your first three months, bouncing back from a missed dilation can take a couple days. Missing two can take a week. Be vigilant.

